Welcome back in this lecture we're going to talk about controlling callbacks with state in the previous
interactive examples we've already seen how inputs immediately affect outputs.
Basically as soon as values were entered into our input the page updates to reflect any changes to the
output.
But what if we wanted to wait before displaying the page.
What if we wanted some time to enter a series of changes before actually submitting them for the update.
Well this is where Dashti Pinsky's state comes in.
So just like we imported input and output from Dasch dependencies we can also import state from dependencies
Dasch offers the ability to store save changes and then send them back on command.
You can think of this as analogous to hitting a submit button on a form.
You first fill out all the information on the form and then you hit submit in order to update something.
Your information doesn't get updated as you fill out the actual form.
It's only upon hitting submit that the state gets called so state is added.
The app callback along with an input output and that's really the main implementation.
It's just adding another thing to app that callback and then that state just like that for input output
is connected to a component ID and a property ID and or its report back and you can check out the component
API documentation to see what properties are available for the components.
Or what would you do now is create a simple input output example and then add on a state call to it.
So let's get started by heading over toward sex ed..
Ok first things first we're going to do our imports will say import dash will import Dasch core components
as DCC will also import dash HTL components as HTL and then from dasht dependencies.
We're now going to import three things we'll do input output and then state and we will state right
away instead will add on state later.
So those are imports we're going to create an application and let's first create an application that
only needs input and output and then we can add on State to it later.
So in our app layout what we're going to do is say HVM l div and then we're going to add in an input
from a core component.
So we'll say DCC input will give an ID.
We'll go ahead and say call this number n we'll give the full value of 1 and then let's make the font
size on this a little bigger.
So I can do that by saying style is equal to and it can pass in font size here.
To be something larger maybe something like 24.
And then after this we're going to have h t m l l haven't had one component.
Well give an idea of number out.
So all this is going to do if someone's going to be able to choose a number in the input and then each
one is going to reflect it.
And we've done something very similar before with an input and then a div reporting back what's being
written backout.
So we need a function to do this we'll create an output function takes in some number and then returns
back that same number and let's connect this now to return that number to this output and accept that
number from this input.
So I will say app that callback
the output we're going to do the ID is called number in or excuse me number out for the output.
So number outs and then what we want here is children because it's an HTL elements.
And then what we will do here for the input.
Remember this goes in as a list is we want the number in ID component and the property you want to grab
is the value property.
So that's the number that's going to go into this output.
And then it's going to return that number.
So let's say this and we'll run our application will say if name is equal to mean well say app top run
server OK let's make sure that works and we don't have any typos here.
We're going to say Python and I'm calling this basic pie.
So I will run this.
It looks like it's running.
Let's head over to the browser.
OK here I am in the browser.
Looks like if I provide a number it immediately gets updated.
And in fact if you provide anything into this impot updated or variable just happens to be called number
but the input can accept any sort of text.
So here it's getting immediately updated.
But you may only want to update upon hitting a submit button.
So that's where state comes in.
Right now everything is live as you update this.
The updating is being live.
Well we're going to do now is show you how you can add state to your application.
So let's go back and edit this.
OK.
We're going to start off by adding another component to our layout and that's going to be in HTL button.
We'll say T.M. button and we need to provide a few parameters here.
One is an ID so we can actually link this up with other input.
So we're going to say a submit button can call this I'd eat whatever you want.
Then another parameter we're going to set is an underscore clicks and underscore clicks that's a parameter
that's actually available for any HDMI component.
And it it's actually going to track how many times this button was clicked.
So we're going to Stiefel as zero to start off with you technically don't need to report back.
The number of clicks but it is there for you.
And it's actually available for all age Tanel components in dash.
So if you check other documentation every single a small component is going to have an underscore clicks
as an option for you.
So that's a parameter.
The children parameter is just going to be the text that is displayed inside of this button so it can
say something like submit here and that's going to be the text shown the button.
And then finally we can edit it style if we want.
So we'll go ahead to make the font size a little larger let's match it up with 24 like we did for that
and put in a comma at the end of this because it's another component in this list inside the Stiv.
So we just added our button.
Now let's use this actual state call inside our app callback.
So what we're going to do here is let's delete this input so we can start fresh.
We still want the output to be the same.
It's still going to be this H-1 this one.
And we still want to edit the children essentially the text displayed inside the H-1 call.
But we're going to do now is let's make sure a princes are balanced.
Perfect.
We're going to create an input member that goes inside of a list and this input is now actually going
to be that button we just created.
So we're going to connect that to that submit button.
And it can go up a little bit so you can see this is connected to submit button and we're going to say
that the property is connected to is the number of times that button was clicked and clicks.
And then after our input list we're going to provide another list and that's going to be the state.
So again you have multiple states just as you can have multiple inputs.
So the state is going to be connected now to number in
and the property you want to connect here is value
OK.
So we're going to save that.
Basically what we have now is our input is the action of clicking the HTL button element the value type
into the input box isn't stored inside of state so it's stored here inside of the state and it's not
actually going to be passed into our output until the input registers a button click.
So essentially the state is what your story until the input is executed.
And since we linked the input to a button the input is not going to be executed until we actually click
that button before we were linking inputs the things like a core component input or a slider.
So we immediately upon playing around that component the input was updated meaning the output was updated.
You can kind of think of states as stuff in between calling the input to the output or just holding
stuff in the state and city execute the input.
So notice here now I'm also passing and clicks as well as the number.
And that's because these parameters are going to be passed in as first every parameter available in
input and that every parameter available in state.
So we have.
And clicks and number.
So that's going to be and clicks and value here.
Let's save this and see if our submit button works we'll see Python.
And in my case called basic pie.
Let's make sure we don't have any typos.
Looks like it's running.
Let's head over to the browser.
All right.
So we have our default value of 1.
And now as I began adding more stuff to this input nothing's actually getting updated.
We have submit here.
So that's the button that children text them at here let's click on it and there we go.
Now we have the updated text and it's only going to update when I provide a click on this button.
So essentially what's happening here is this is being stored in state and it doesn't get sent to this
output until I click on this to execute the input.
There we go.
So let's go back and add in the number of clicks because we're actually keeping track of that as well.
And we're going to close this go back to the text editor.
OK back to that text editor.
Let's do Control-C to kill that server and we're going to do is we're going to report number.
Well in fact let's make this as a string.
We're going to do some quick concatenating we'll say number and in fact let's put this all in formatting
so it will say blank was typed in and Button was clicked.
Times will do that format.
You can do string literals on Python 3.6.
And we're going to passen number and the clicks here.
So we'll say number was typed and Button was clicked and it clicks times again remember you can call
this parameter or whatever you want.
It doesn't have to be number.
It could just be something like input although I would avoid using the word input because we use it
so many times as a function call here.
Let's save this and read this again base pi.
And there we go.
So let's go back to our browser.
OK here I am back.
Notice now how the text is being displayed.
One was type then and Button was clicked 0 times.
Let's update this to be 100.
So now hundreds typed in this is now being stored in state and it doesn't get sent to the output until
I click the input which is this submit here button.
Once I click that it says 100 was typed in and Button was clicked 1 times so and clicks is connected
to.
HTL component and it's actually going to store how many times that one was clicked.
So I can keep clicking on the button and you see it keeps going up and even if I type something new
here.
Ill keep track of how many times that was clicked.
So you don't see a jump or resetting back to zero and that's how state works.
So again it's basically adding to your capabilities the input and output.
You set up your input.
You set up your output and then state is whatever you want to hold until you actually execute that input.
All right.
Thanks everyone.
We'll see you at the next lecture.
Make sure to check the guidebook for more details on this lecture.